# Object Oriented Concepts

---

### Scaffolding

**Format**: Tutorial/Half-Comic. Think CSP Tutorials.

**Creativity:** 

* Let's work on a hybrid comic but with more text and graphics instead.
* Should keep drawings fairly simple for this, with more diagrams and very minimal code.

#### Programming Artefacts

###### Object

- Describe a component with properties and methods
- Are designed to resemble real world objects
- describe what they can do and hide information the outside world doesn't need to know
  - describes what the thing is capable of

###### Method

* functions and procedures defined within an object that can do something useful
* can modify the data fields of the object
* allow objects to interact with one anotherobj

###### Fields

* attributes or properties
* declared in classes and are members of a class. they can be private and properties can be public to expose certain information. a form of de-coupling.

###### Class

* Classes are blueprints for creating objects
* Provide initial values for state
* implementations of behaviour (member functions or methods)
* Set of instructions to build a specific type of object
* create instances of objects
* think about classes and instantiation as like baking a cake
* class is like a recipe for a cake, the recipe is not a cake.
* following the recipe is instantiating it
* bake as many as you like, reference variables help keep track of them

###### Interface

* interfaces are essentially contracts that enforce certain properties on ab object.
* they are also known as contracts and may be thought of with a "is also a" relationship. For example, a submarine is a "submarine" but "is also a" boat. 
* They are purely abstract and define the functions that a class must implement-- that is, they must have, to qualify as that sort of interface.
* Sub-ma-boat. Sub-ma-car?

#### Concepts and Principles

###### Abstraction

* handle complexity by hiding unnecessary details from the user
* treat these sorts of things as black boxes because the user simply doesn't need to know about it
* enables the user to create more complex devices using the current abstractions without worrying about the hidden complexity.
* Making coffee is a well-known abstraction where instead of grinding the beans (etc), you can just press a button and the coffee machine does it for you
  * Example i can implement is terrain generation and the terrain factory.

###### Encapsulation

* It is the idea of keeping data and methods in one place (i.e. a class).
* Hides internal details of the object from the outside world (i.e. information hiding)
* Getters and setters are good examples of encapsulation as it holds the private values private and allows access to them only through the methods. 
* Also describes the access modifiers. In general, they are:
  * Private,
  * No modifier,
  * Protected,
  * Public.

###### Inheritance



###### Polymorphism

###### Roles

###### Responsibilities

###### Collaborations

###### Coupling

###### Cohesion

###### 

---

##### References

https://brilliant.org/wiki/classes-oop/  

https://www.adobe.com/devnet/actionscript/learning/oop-concepts/objects-and-classes.html

https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/dotnet/csharp/programming-guide/classes-and-structs/fields

https://stackify.com/oop-concept-abstraction/ 

https://stackify.com/oop-concept-for-beginners-what-is-encapsulation/

---

